A car rental company operates a number of rental locations throughout the metropoli-
tan area. Since the company has a great business model and provides customer-friendly
service, its business has boomed over the last several years. As the business has grown
rapidly, the costs of running its business has also increased. In particular, as the job
market becomes hot, the labor cost has doubled over the last several years. The com-
pany wants to find a solution to reduce its operating cost. The business operation of
the company is described as follows. The description is not meant to be complete,
and the company is flexible enough to consider any good improvement proposals.
Vehicles can be taken from one location and returned to the same location or to
a different location with an additional charge. Although the company is, at present,
concerned only with passenger cars, it may branch out into other forms of vehicle
rentals in the future and would like to be able to use the same reservation system.
The company has several different makes of cars in its rental fleet, from different
manufacturers. Each make may have several models. For example, Toyota has Corolla,
Camry, and more. The models are grouped into a small number of price classes. The
customer must be able to select the make and the model he or she wants to rent. If the
selected car is not available, the system should display a message telling the customer
that the car is rented out and let the customer select another make and model, or have
the system suggest similar models of a different make.
The company has a number of different rental plans available to customers.
For example, there is a “daily unlimited miles plan” and a “weekend 10% discount
plan.” The company finds it important to have information available on the models
of car, such as automatic or manual gear change, two or four doors, and sedan or
hatchback. The rental prices may be different for different options and a customer
will want to know such information when reserving a car. Currently, customers make
reservations directly with the car rental company either in person or through the
phone. The salespersons process the reservations manually using a reservation form
and archive them in the file cabinet. No deposit is required at the time of reservation.
The reservation is voided if the customer does not show up to sign the contract for
more than a given period of time. Such reservation is honored only if there are still
cars available to satisfy the request.
Sometimes a customer wishes to make a block reservation for several cars and
to have the invoices for all rentals on the reservation handled together. As soon as a

car is checked out to a customer, an invoice is opened. A single invoice may cover
one or more rentals. Normally a customer will settle the invoice when the car is
returned but, in some cases, the invoice must be sent to a company (such as the
customer’s employer). When the customer pays by a credit card, the rental charge
will be processed through a credit card processing company.
A car may or may not be available for rental on a given day. Rental cars need
frequent preventive maintenance and, in addition, any damage to a car has to be
repaired as soon as possible. The company wants to keep track of the rental car
purchase, repair, maintenance, and disposal information for business and tax purposes
(e.g., depreciation of the rental cars).